ROADMAP.md, before:

# Possible Future Extensions and Improvements (roughly in order of priority):

### Hopefully coming soon: index for single texts

- more flexible alphabet API
    - allow alphabet with sentinel included in io representation
    - allow alphabet without sentinel (only usable for single text indexing)
- optimized version for single text without sentinel
- optimized construction directly from (fasta) file reader

### Nice to have, higher priority

- compress text and/or bwt at some point during construction (half/half buffer)
- space optimization for rarely occurring symbols (such as the sentinel and N in the human Genome)
    - maybe leverage the fact that such characters (namely N) often occur in runs
    - the sentinel can not be searched. the current sampled suffix array implementation has special handling for it.
        so it technically doesn't have to be stored in the text with rank support. If N also gets special handling,
        the condensed text with rank support will get smaller and maybe faster. 
        A text sampled suffix array could be an option, or a "sparse" text with rank support substructure.
- paired blocks for improved memory usage when using larger alphabets
- maybe a slow, super-low memory construction mode using the `sufr` crate (store suffix array in file)
- experiment with batched search
- mayeb type-erase index storage type and choose automatically for text size (does that work with savefile?)

### Large topics, is the goal to eventually support

- bidirectional FM-Index
- searches with errors and "degenerate" chars in IUPAC fasta definition (using search schemes)

### Nice to have, but low priority

- suffix array, lookup table compression using unconventional int widths (e.g. 33 bit)
- gate rayon/OpenMP usage behind feature flag
- optional functionality for text recovery
- text sampled suffix array (optionally with text ids and other annotations)

### Large topics, might never happen

- optimizations for highly repetitive texts such as run length encoding
- FMD-Index
- word-based FM-Indices

Commit message:

feat: improve batch computed cursors

ROADMAP.md, after:

# Possible Future Extensions and Improvements (roughly in order of priority):

### Hopefully coming soon: index for single texts

- more flexible alphabet API
    - allow alphabet with sentinel included in io representation
    - allow alphabet without sentinel (only usable for single text indexing)
- optimized version for single text without sentinel
- optimized construction directly from (fasta) file reader

### Nice to have, higher priority

- space optimization for rarely occurring symbols (such as the sentinel and N in the human Genome)
    - maybe leverage the fact that such characters (namely N) often occur in runs
    - the sentinel can not be searched. the current sampled suffix array implementation has special handling for it.
        so it technically doesn't have to be stored in the text with rank support. If N also gets special handling,
        the condensed text with rank support will get smaller and maybe faster. 
        A text sampled suffix array could be an option, or a "sparse" text with rank support substructure.
- paired blocks for improved memory usage when using larger alphabets

### Large topics, is the goal to eventually support

- bidirectional FM-Index
- searches with errors and "degenerate" chars in IUPAC fasta definition (using search schemes)

### Nice to have, but low priority

- gate rayon/OpenMP usage behind feature flag
- API to use batched search with cursors
- type-erase index storage type and choose automatically for text size (does that work with savefile?)
- optional functionality for text recovery
- text sampled suffix array (with text ids and optionally other annotations)
- suffix array, lookup table compression using unconventional int widths (e.g. 33 bit)

### Large topics, might never happen

- FMD-Index
- word-based FM-Indices
- optimizations for highly repetitive texts such as run length encoding
- ropeBWT/dynamic FM-Index
